Design Considerations:

Sourcing materials.
This was an adventure of its own. Bought a few things to scavenge from and tried to use things I already had. Found a really good local (Kitchener, Ontario Canada)place to buy all things electronic. Sayal Electronics  in Cambridge Ontario.

Workshop Setup.
Helped me reset up a soldering station  and get a few tools that worked better. first time I've used heat shrink tubing for insulation.

Microprocessor
I had a Raspberry Pi 3 that t was using as a linux, python  and minecraft termnal. Tried to use that.
Broke the protruding SD card in half fitting it to the frame. Bought a new SD Noobs card and Pi wouldn't boot - only get red power light.  Reseached this problem  but after a week polyfuses had not reset.
Remember messing with a 9 volt battery and leads before remembering Pi is 5 volts max. Brick!.
Decided to try an Audrino Uno that I bought and never did anything with. 

Motors
Had a few sets of motors to chose from. The Yellow ones I used are very power  hungry. Used a N298L motor driver, bought from Sayal. Just clicked till I doubled up the 9 volt batteries in parallel, eventually went to 3. Soldered a little wiring harness. Fun.

Wires
Colours. Next time I'm going to be more considerate. Wiring nest looks like a birthday party. Used a breadboard on chassis so that I could work on my power problem, and also use the arduino to try other sensors and actuators as I was figuring it out, without disassembling the car.

Structural Issues.
Finding space and fitting stuff on the frame. Keeping stuff attached. Little nuts kept falling off. Used Rubber bands and fiberglass 
tape more than I wanted to or will next time.

Coding
Since I'd switched to an Arduino, I was now into their IDE and C++. Kept my program simpler, Car advances straight till senses an obsticle at 20 cm, then turns left. If no obsticle goes straight. Repeat.  I feel I can meet the objectives of this assigment with that as demonstrated by my Mp4.

Batteries
I need to do more study  on batteries, 9 volt one times probably wont be my next choice. 

CAD SOFTWARE
Looked at Fritzing. Paysite, downloaded KiCad, the learning curve was too big, easier for me to draw my one time
schematic for this  in MS Paint. Learn KiKad later.